.\" (C) Copyright 2013-2016 Mariusz Jedwabny <mariusz@jedwabny.net>
.TH NICESHAPER 8 "March 24, 2016"
.SH NAME
.PP
NiceShaper \- Dynamic Traffic Shaper
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fBniceshaper\fR {start|stop|restart|status|show} [\fIoptions\fR]
.PP
\fBniceshaper\fR start|restart [\fB\-\-confdir\fR \fI/path\fR] [\fB\-\-conffile\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB\-\-classfile\fR \fIpath\fR] [\fB\-\-no-daemon\fR]
.br
\fBniceshaper\fR stop
.br
\fBniceshaper\fR status|show [\fB--remote\fR \fIip[:port]\fR \fB--password\fR \fIpassword\fR]
.br
\fBniceshaper\fR status [\fB--unit\fR \fIunit\fR] [\fB--watch\fR \fI1-60\fR]
.br
\fBniceshaper\fR show \fB--running\fR {\fIconfig\fR|\fIclasses\fR}
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBNiceShaper\fR is a program working in a Linux router environment.
It uses a proven HTB QOS algorithm. It provides dynamic traffic shaping
which is more effective than traditional, static shaping.
By constantly monitoring packets flowing through the router
in response to changing load dynamically adjusts the bandwidth
of acting classes to a level enabling the fullest possible
usage of a internet access.
At the same time does not allow for creation of congestion,
ensuring complete convenience of interactive services.
.PP
\fBNiceShaper\fR protects each class which use reasonable amount of bandwidth
and takes care of overall download when upload is close to stop up.
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
It's possible to create an quite effective configuration using the example files included in the \fI/etc/niceshaper\fR directory.
.PP
The documentation, for more complex needs, is placed in the \fI/usr/share/doc/niceshaper/html\fR directory.
.PP
The following runtime options can be used:
.TP 
\fB\-\-confdir\fR \fI/path\fR
Overwrite configuration directory location.
.TP
\fB\-\-conffile\fR \fIpath\fR
Overwrite configuration file path.
.TP
\fB\-\-classfile\fR \fIpath\fR
Overwrite classes file path.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-daemon\fR
Don't move a process into the background.
.TP
\fB\-\-unit\fR \fIunit\fR
Overwrite configured status unit.
.TP
\fB\-\-watch\fR \fI1-60\fR
Monitor status with given in seconds interval.
.TP
\fB\-\-running\fR \fI{config|classes}\fR
Dump running configuration or classes.
.TP
\fB\-\-remote\fR \fIip[:port]\fR
Connect to remote NiceShaper (must be configured with status listen).
.TP
\fB\-\-password\fR \fIpassword\fR
Connect to remote NiceShaper using password (must be configured with status password).
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Mariusz Jedwabny <mariusz@jedwabny.net>.
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
.PP
Report bugs to <mariusz@jedwabny.net>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
The full documentation for \fBNiceShaper\fR is maintained as html
documents included in the package and on the official website.
.PP
\fBNiceShaper\fR project website:
.br
http://niceshaper.jedwabny.net

